README.md, before:

# \#EPL-injuries-analysis





\## Abstract
Research of the impact of injuries on player performance, correlation analysis and data visualization.

\## Conclussion
See detailed findings in [`notebooks/injury_analysis_summary.ipynb`](notebooks/injury_analysis_summary.ipynb).*

*Briefly: Central backs and central midfielders suffer the most injuries, goalkeepers have the highest median recovery time, wide midfielders and wingers have the fewest injuries. For further details and analysis limitations, see the conclusion in the notebook.*

##  Main Visualizations

### Chart 1: Average by Injury Category

![Avarege Downtime by Injury Category](visualizations/average_downtime_by_injury.png)

### Chart 2: Mean and Median by Position
![Mean and Median Downtime by Player Position (Polytrauma Excluded)](visualizations/downtime_by_position_mean_median.png)

### Chart 3: Downtime Distribution by Position (Boxplot)
![Downtime Boxplot](visualizations/downtime_distribution_by_position.png)

### Injury Count by Player Position
![Injury Count](visualizations/injury_count_by_position.png)

### Injury Type Frequency by Position (Heatmap)
![Injury Heatmap](visualizations/heatmap_injury_type_for_position.png)

\## Used apps

* Python (Pandas, Matplotlib...)
* SQL (SQLite)
* Excel
* Streamlit
* GitHub



\## Project Structure

\- `data/` – initial and edited data

\-`notebooks/` – Jupyter Notebook for dataanalysys

\-`scripts/` – scripts for data processing

\- `visualizations/` – visualizations and graphs

\- `app/` – apps for visualization and analysys

\- `results/` – endresults



\## Author

Janibek Magmurov

Commit message:

Update README with interactive Dashboard (streamlit via bash)

README.md, after:

# \#EPL-injuries-analysis





## Abstract
Research of the impact of injuries on player performance, correlation analysis and data visualization.

## Conclussion
See detailed findings in [`notebooks/injury_analysis_summary.ipynb`](notebooks/injury_analysis_summary.ipynb).*

*Briefly: Central backs and central midfielders suffer the most injuries, goalkeepers have the highest median recovery time, wide midfielders and wingers have the fewest injuries. For further details and analysis limitations, see the conclusion in the notebook.*

##  Main Visualizations

### Chart 1: Average by Injury Category

![Avarege Downtime by Injury Category](visualizations/average_downtime_by_injury.png)

### Chart 2: Mean and Median by Position
![Mean and Median Downtime by Player Position (Polytrauma Excluded)](visualizations/downtime_by_position_mean_median.png)

### Chart 3: Downtime Distribution by Position (Boxplot)
![Downtime Boxplot](visualizations/downtime_distribution_by_position.png)

### Injury Count by Player Position
![Injury Count](visualizations/injury_count_by_position.png)

### Injury Type Frequency by Position (Heatmap)
![Injury Heatmap](visualizations/heatmap_injury_type_for_position.png)


## Streamlit Interactive Dashboard

You can run an interactive web app to explore the main analytics:

``bash
streamlit run app/streamlit_app.py

\## Used apps

* Python (Pandas, Matplotlib...)
* SQL (SQLite)
* Excel
* Streamlit
* GitHub



\## Project Structure

\- `data/` – initial and edited data

\-`notebooks/` – Jupyter Notebook for dataanalysys

\-`scripts/` – scripts for data processing

\- `visualizations/` – visualizations and graphs

\- `app/` – apps for visualization and analysys

\- `results/` – endresults



\## Author

Janibek Magmurov
